>> Ben Hong: All right,
who here has heard of VueUse?
Yay, okay, so we got some people here, and
then there are obviously some who haven't.
And so this is the one composable library.
I tell everyone as much as I humanly can,
because it just represents
this incredible collection
of what possibilities there
are with composables.
So if you're looking for examples of
how composables could be written,
I'm not sure there's really
a better library to stare at,
because what they've essentially done,
if you don't know what VueUse is.
Is they've taken all the core
functionality of browsers and stuff, and
they've made everything reactive,
so it's ready to be used for Vue.
So, again, they say show, don't tell.
So the first thing, so
has anyone here ever implemented
local storage by themselves?
Yeah, the API is not terrible,
but it's a little verbose.
And so, what's cool is that they
have this thing called useStorage.
And useStorage essentially,
instead of doing something ref,
you just say my thing,
like flag, useStorage.
You give it a key of whatever you want
the local source to store it under, right,
cuz that's what it's going to retrieve it,
and then whatever value you want.
And then after that,
flag just becomes this reactive ref.
And then whenever it changes, it updates
the local storage, and it's fantastic.
And so the reason this is also
particularly cool is because what this
means is it's a little.
It's not as effective in this particular
demo because we technically have a backend
that's saving data.
But to give you an example,
if we look at the task
store that we have here,
you'll notice here that right now
it's just a regular reactive array.
But if you were to import
useStorage from view,
use core, like this, and
you just wrapped it,
I think I can do it like this, taskList.
I think that works.
Yeah, clean, okay.
By the way, you see that?
Maybe reforGetter.
So more commonly, I think, seen in
libraries is where we're seeing it,
because they just don't know
what their user is going to do.
So what's cool about this then,
is that now that you have this,
all you've done is you've wrapped.
Instead of just making it a normal ref,
you've wrapped useStorage to it.
And so now, if we go to our site and
go to our tasks,
you'll see here inside
of your application.
Let me bring this up so
it's easier for everyone to see.
Look at that, all your stuff's there.
It's fantastic.
And so if you're working on just a client
side rendered app, you don't have access
to a database and you want to be able
to save your stuff in between sessions.
This is a really cheap and
easy way to do so.
It's not quite a local database, but
honestly, I think it'll get you pretty
darn far being able to do that, especially
if you just, cookie IDs, whatever.
It makes it just so easy.
And so to be clear though,
the default is local storage.
But you can see here, and this is the
pattern that I want to talk about next,
that they actually make it easy for
you to then like configure things.
So for example, da, da, da.
Let's see, where is it?
Use the other store choice can be
specified via a third argument.
So where is that third argument?
So here's an example where they've given
you, here's your key, here's your object,
and then they actually have what
they call like a serializer.
So they actually give you the option to
determine how your data is being parsed.
So, you have some custom tree walker thing
that again, a JSON parse, JSON stringify,
that's fairly standard, but you might have
some unique things that you're doing.
You can walk in there and
it basically accepts those things.
I'll switch back to this in just a second.
The pattern here that we're talking
about is ultimately what is called
the options parameter object.
And so to quickly just give you
an overview of what I mean by this is that
a lot of times when people are writing
composables, although this really does
apply to I think JavaScript as a whole,
like when you're architecting your.
For example, we were just
using useFetch earlier, right?
That's what we were doing.
It's easy for developers to get carried
away cuz they're like, there's URL,
there's the methods,
there's the body type, whatever.
And they kind of, before you know it,
there are some method signatures that
are just so many arguments long.
And the problem with this,
even with this three alone,
is that you have to remember
which order they're in, right?
And so the options parameter object
basically tries to encourage developers to
think more along the lines
that like call it like
the rule of thumb being that your first.
The rule of thumb is the first two
parameters which are commonly used.
Say in this particular case,
like you're on your methods.
Those are so common that like, cool.
Those are the required ones
that I want you to memorize.
But if I have stuff like body type and
whatever,
this is really an options object.
And inside of the options object you can
then say if you have body, what a format.
And then it's like JSON, whatever,
you can then expose additional
functionality through this part.
And so it's this idea of trying
to keep your signatures lower so
that obviously they're
easier to understand.
And then by doing so, you then unlock
what you see here inside of you use,
which is that they ultimately.
Let me pick one, for
example, use ref history.
Okay, let me bump this up so
you can see properly.
Does this have the controls?
So what we see here, right,
is useref history comes on in,
it takes in your counter.
And then what it does is it exposes
additional functionality that then can be
used basically without having
you configure a bunch of stuff.
This is also called a controls pattern.
And so typically you can assume that
it normally allows you to increment,
decrement and whatnot, but then it
exposes additional functionality for
undo and
redo should you choose to expose it.
Thinking of it like overloading a
JavaScript function where you have a basic
implementation, where it like does
the simplest thing you want it to do.
And then when the user configures again,
I'm not sure where there was an example
that was, let me just write the signature
for you was essentially like this.
So by default it was something like this.
It was like usePlayVideo, right?
And so usePlayVideo by default,
assume that you would basically give it,
again, let's say VIDEO_URL.
And then when you basically
grab the video and
you played it, or
you basically you ran the function,
you would play the video because that's
what you would by normally default do.
And then what it did
was interesting enough.
It would allow you to do something
like controls equals true.
And what that happened was it would then
instead of assuming you wanted to play,
it would all of a sudden expose a play,
a pause, a stop and like fast forward, for
example, and would give you fine grain
control over how the function worked.
And so I'm not telling you whether
you should do it this way one way or
another, but I have found it
to be an interesting way to
allow users to progressively enhance
complexity in their functions.
Because normally I think we're used to
just kind of writing new functions every
time you want new functionality.
But this way, with this kind of controls,
true flag or via the options parameter.
It gives you a way of thinking
about things from, okay,
nine out of ten times
users are doing this.
One out of ten times,
they need more granular control.
This is how we're gonna expose it to them.
So this is like a pattern that's
kind of interesting that I
just wanted to share with you.
>> Speaker 2: Use media controls.
>> Ben Hong: It was it in that
one I didn't want to use.
>> Speaker 2: Might be
what you were thinking of.
>> Ben Hong: Maybe.
You know what's funny?
Yeah, it might be that one,
you said useMediaControls.
Yeah, it has a source [CROSSTALK] and
then it has a whole bunch of options and
then if you just click it is just playing.
Yeah, I think this is similar.
Yeah, there's so
much fun stuff in here to play with.
So for example, one of the things
I've used a lot is useColorMode.
It basically uses the browser API to
automatically detect whether what kind of
theme you prefer, light, dark.
And then since that's something
you have to manage anyways,
it's just really convenient to have.